Updates to federation docs for Rover launch (#731)
apollographql/federation: docs/source/managed-federation/federated-schema-checks.mdx

title: Federated schema checks
---

> For an introduction to schema checks, see [Schema checks](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/studio/schema-checks/).

> Federation enables teams to work independently on subgraphs without needing to coordinate on a monolithic schema. However, this increase in autonomy requires controls to ensure that teams respect [defined dependencies](../federation-spec/) ensure that supergraph composition succeeds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Federation enables teams to work independently on subgraphs without needing to coordinate on a monolithic schema. However, this increase in autonomy requires controls to ensure that teams respect [defined dependencies](../federation-spec/) and ensure that supergraph composition succeeds.
```

I think this sentence at least needs an "and", but I find it a bit confusing overall. I think I might honestly just ... remove it and/or just take a little bit of it and add it to the start of the next paragraph? I like the next paragraph better, it's more succinct and better explains what's actually going on.

Author: Yeah, ideally this whole article eventually doesn't exist in favor of folding its guidance into the primary schema checks article. I'll tackle all of these suggestions to make it more readable, but it's a bit of a bear

In particular, along with validating overall schema changes against known operations, running `rover subgraph check` for a subgraph helps ensure that all subgraph schemas still compose to a valid supergraph schema, and will output any violated dependencies if present.

> When you run `rover subgraph check` on a particular subgraph, Apollo Studio runs composition on the proposed capabilities with the current list of subgraphs and their capabilities, making sure that the composition is successful. That composed schema is then compared against the most recently registered schema to confirm that those changes are safe. If composition fails, then validation ends and results are returned to the user. Note that running `rover subgraph check` never updates the graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you run `rover subgraph check` on a particular subgraph, Apollo Studio attempts to compose a supergraph using the schemas from all of the other published subgraphs and the new proposed subgraph schema. If composition succeeds, the composed schema is compared against the most recently registered schema to confirm that no known clients are impacted by the proposed changes. If composition fails, then validation ends and results are returned to the user. Note that running `rover subgraph check` never updates the graph.
```

I took a shot at this one, though I still don't love my wording 😆 `rover subgraph check` remains one of the most complicated and hard to understand commands. Would love to workshop this one some more.

I propose removing mentions of "capabilities" here since it feels like unnecessary jargon to me (it's actually the first I'm hearing of the term in relation to GraphQL actually). Maybe that would be a mistake though 🤷

There are two types of failures that can occur during validation: failed usage checks and failed composition. Failed usage checks are failures due to breaking changes, like removing a field that an active client is querying. Failed composition, on the other hand, is a failure due to inability to compose the graph, like missing a `@key` for an extended entity.

## Handling composition failure

> In general, you should run `rover subgraph publish` only after a successful run of `rover subgraph check`. Even in this case, however, it's possible that `rover subgraph publish` will encounter composition errors because of simultaneous changes to _another_ subgraph. When this happens, your subgraph's registered schema will still be updated as long as its capabilities are spec-compliant, but **the graph will not be updated**. This means that a new schema will not be associated, nor will the gateway's configuration be updated.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: change "When this happens" to "When a composition error occurs after publishing a subgraph" to be less ambiguous.

> In general, you should run `rover subgraph publish` only after a successful run of `rover subgraph check`. Even in this case, however, it's possible that `rover subgraph publish` will encounter composition errors because of simultaneous changes to _another_ subgraph. When a composition error occurs after publishing a subgraph, your subgraph's registered schema is still updated as long as its capabilities are spec-compliant, but **the supergraph will not be updated**. This means that a new supergraph schema will not be associated, nor will the gateway's configuration be updated.

Reviewer: > will not be associated

Don't love the verb "associated" here. Maybe updated? Created? Not sure
